The Suzuki method, also called Talent Education, was developed by Shiniki Suzuki in the first half of the twentieth century.  Suzuki believed that all children in the world show great natural capacities by speaking and understanding their mother languages.  He  sought to combine "a music teaching method with a philosophy that embraced the total development of the child."  "Character first, ability second."  "If a child hears fine music from the day of his birth and learns to play it himself, he develops sensitivity, discipline, and endurance.  He gets a beautiful heart."

The teachers of Hopewood Music Studios utilize the Suzuki method in teaching piano, cello, guitar, and voice in private lessons and group classes.  Music theory, ear-training, and sight-reading are also included in the instruction.

Pricing and Policies:

First semester--mid-August through mid-December---$320
Second semester--January through mid-May---$360
Summer lessons--June through July (6 lessons)--$120


Lessons are 30 minutes long, slightly less for young beginners.  Longer lessons can be arranged for advanced students.
Payment is due at the first lesson of each semester.  Monthly payments can be arranged at $65 a month.
Family discounts of 5% will be offered.
Make-up lessons will be given when it is necessary for a student or teacher to miss a lesson due to sickness, emergencies, or other necessities. In any case, 24 hours notice will be given. Make-up's will be scheduled during the breaks in December and May.  No more than one student make-up per month.
Breaks are as follows:  Thanksgiving week, several weeks in December, the week before or after Easter, and the last two weeks of May. (Exact dates TBA.)
Recitals, rehearsals, and group classes are included in the semester fee.  (Scheduling of these TBA.)
Scholarships based on need are available for serious students.

hopewoodstudio@gmail.com
Home phone:  434-753-6324
cell phone:  434-214-0077

The success of our method is dependent on the reinforcement of the lesson by the parent at home.  Therefore, we request that a parent attend every lesson with the  young child.
Adult students are also welcome.  Suzuki's method works for grown-up's, too!


Teachers:
Samuel Howell, cello, guitar, and voice teacher, home-schooled, Suzuki trained and registered as a teacher, earned a degree in music from Northern Virginia Community College, studying cello with Chris Nunnelly and John Kaboff, guitar with Larry Wilborn at Averitt University, and voice with Dr. Aurelius Gori of NOVA.

Toni Howell, voice and piano teacher, BA in theater arts from Susquehanna University, studied voice with James Wilhelm of the New York Metropolitan Opera, Suzuki-trained in piano and registered as a teacher, home-school mother of 5 musical children (Samuel being #3), has more than 30 years experience in teaching children and youth in Christian schools and through the Storysingers, a music and drama club of students, aged 5-22.

Studio Admission
When you contact us by email or telephone we will be able to answer some of your basic questions.  But the greater understanding will happen at the first meeting, the parent's meeting.  This is free of charge and will cover the following topics: (copy these from Susi's website)
